New "Tokens&NFTs" Section (#1068)
lukso-network/docs: docs/learn/digital-assets/getting-started.md

---
sidebar_label: '👋🏻 Getting Started'
sidebar_position: 1
description: Create a Hardhat project and start building your smart contracts for LUKSO.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> # Getting started building contracts

Reviewer: Suggest renaming since we are in the Digital Assets section

```suggestion
# Getting started building Tokens & NFTs
```

The LUKSO ecosystem offers smart contract developers a lot of [new standards](../../standards/introduction.md) and [tools](../../tools/getting-started.md) to build **powerful, modular, and standardized** blockchain applications.

> This page will guide you through setting up your development environment to build on LUKSO.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

```suggestion
This page will guide you in setting up your development environment to build and deploy tokens and NFTs on LUKSO.
```

> If you need more low level information about our contracts, you can check the dedicated [contracts](../../contracts/introduction.md) section.

Reviewer: Suggest putting that at the top as an info callout

:::info

For more low level information about the Tokens Contracts (LSP7 and LSP8), see the dedicated [**Contracts**](../../contracts/introduction.md) section.

:::

### Playground Repository

In the following guides, we will use the [`lukso-playground`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lukso-playground) repository with a full Hardhat setup, including ready-to-go network configurations, sample contracts, and scripts to deploy and verify LSP-based contracts on LUKSO.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>

<img
src="/img/guides/playground_hardhat.png"
alt="LUKSO Playground Hardhat"
/>

</div>

## Clone the Playground Repository

First, clone the playground repository and navigate into the smart-contracts-hardhat folder:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/lukso-network/lukso-playground.git
cd lukso-playground/smart-contracts-hardhat
```

> Once navigated, you have a working Hardhat setup.

Reviewer: Suggest deleting this sentence. This is not true. You still need to install the dependencies. Also there is also this sentence at the bottom, so it seems redundant:

<img width="686" alt="image" src="https://github.com/lukso-network/docs/assets/31145285/b306284f-82b4-4afd-bfeb-26d8e988eabd">

:::info

**This repository uses the [bun](https://bun.sh) toolkit to manage packages and run scripts. Make sure to [install it](https://bun.sh/docs/installation) first.**

:::

> To install all the dependencies, run the below command:

Reviewer: Suggest putting bun first at the top and not put the info callout, but just as a step.

```bash
bun install
```

You can then go ahead to create a `.env` file within the root folder of the Hardhat repository and the following contents:

```text title=".env"
PRIVATE_KEY=0x...
UP_ADDR=0x...
```

> The private key will be used to deploy the smart contracts to the network and can either be a **standalone Externally Owned Account** or a **controller of a Universal Profile**. If you want to deploy the smart contracts as a Universal Profile, you also have to provide the related address of the Universal Profile.

Reviewer: We are not showing guides to deploy as a UP. Only as an EOA. Developers looking to know how to deploy a contract using a UP can look at this guide:

https://docs.lukso.tech/learn/universal-profile/interactions/deploy-contracts

We can add the code snippet to deploy a token from a UP as a sub-category "Example" in this guide
